welcome to 2021 and welcome to
e2 language e2 ielts i'm alex
and my name's jay and in this video
we're going to talk about
passing ielts in 2021.
you can do it and we are going to help
you we sure are
yay okay so let's say i'm taking ielts
in 2021 again
again and let's say i might be taking it
next week or i'm taking in three months
or
six months or i'm thinking like even a
year away
what should i do alex well you've got to
set some goals
so the first thing that you should do is
download our 2021 goal setter in the
description
below i'm going to use that you're going
to use that to
set your goals and achieve them good
so what things do i need to consider in
order to pass my ielts test
so we've got to think about when when is
your test
yeah what scores do you need where are
you going
what are your scores or what's your
level now right where are you
yeah right uh and then you've got to set
some more micro goals as well what are
you going to do
every day to improve your reading to
improve your listening what if i just
leave it until the day before the test
before i prepare
i'll pretend you didn't say that don't
do that please
there's plenty of time there are plenty
of resources
we can do it yeah
all right so in this video we're going
to take you through
all four parts of the test and for each
part of the test we're going to give you
two critical tips okay so stick around
and watch this
now why do i actually want to pass an
ielts test yeah i think that's the
biggest thing to keep in mind
in your preparation because it can be
[Music]
tough yeah mentally tough physically
tough yeah
you've got to keep in mind what's at the
end why are you taking the test what's
your goal and
how is life going to change when you
open those results
and you've got your score hang on to
that through your test preparation that
is gonna
keep you alive that's what it's all
about where are we going
okay let's get started writing
tip number one is get to know all the
possible ielts task
types now this first tip is all about
familiarity with the test now if you're
taking ielts academic
task 1 is 150 words or more
but there are lots of different
possibilities you might get
a line graph you might get a bar chart
you might get
four pie charts a process diagram on
test day
you don't want to get a surprise when
you open up or when you click on the
screen
you want to have seen that before and
have written that before as well
i think that's a really good tip in fact
no surprises
is what you want to expect
or have on test day the worst thing that
can happen on test day is you open up
that test booklet and go
oh my god what's that i've never seen
that before yeah
and of course you have to be flexible
like task one yeah there's a
there's a number of tasks that you might
get if you're doing general
formal semi-formal or informal but
within that you never know the question
or the topic
but you know that you're going to write
a letter and
if you've studied those three different
types you don't need to
ask yourself questions like how do i
start how do i end
can i use contractions all of those
questions should be answered in your
test preparation
so how do you do it well we've got some
videos below to show you
but of course the best place is on our
learning platform on e2language.com
yeah so one of the things that we do at
e2language.com
is we have live classes that happen
every day twice a day with expert
teachers and there will be no surprises
if you prepare with
us on your test day okay and on the self
study section
all the different task types are there
mixed charts processes maps all of that
i remember i took because i've taken the
ielts five times
one of them i took it and then i did
academic writing task one and there were
three line graphs
with two lines each in the line graphs
and i was like what yeah
and i didn't prepare for that and um we
won't mention my score
good lesson that was then that's right
this is 20 21.
okay so tip number one get to know all
the task types
writing tip number two in task two
answer the question all right this might
seem obvious that when you get your
essay questioned
that you actually read it carefully and
answer the question
but you'd be surprised people don't what
people tend to do is they have some
memorized essay in their head that
they're just going to
sort of write on test day and it's not
going to
hit the first criterion which is task
response
task response means that you actually
answer the question
fully so on test date you really need to
spend a little bit of time
clearing your mind reading the question
making sure you've understood
all of it and your essay needs to
address
every single part of that question okay
let's have a look at an example shall we
so this is a question from
the cambridge book 13. we'll just read
it quickly
it says living in a country where you
have to speak a foreign language can
cause
serious social problems as well as
practical problems
to what extent do you agree or disagree
with this statement
okay so some important features of this
question
serious social problems can you think of
an example
um okay so miscommunications while
shopping yep yeah or
miscommunicate miscreant communications
in a healthcare setting or
yeah these are more specific examples
but yeah making friends
at university or something like that
that's a serious social problem
practical problems maybe you're having
trouble
booking a room in a hotel or buying a
ticket on a train
these are the kind of things the
examiner wants to see you
write about the most important thing is
this to what extent do you agree or
disagree
cool so a big problem that could happen
with
this essay question is that someone just
writes about the social problems
and maybe they write about how
i don't know maybe they just don't get
into that in detail
they neglect the practical problems um
instead of to what extent they agree or
disagree they talk about the
disadvantages for example this is no no
no no you read that you read it all you
understand it all and your essay must
include
all of it yeah yeah answer the question
answer the question
check out the links below there's a
great podcast that you did
about this and check out some of our
sample essays as well yeah actually in
that podcast it's really good
i spoke to two people from idp which is
a co-owner of the ielts test and these
two guys were
experts or our experts in ielts
and specifically in ielts writing and we
spoke to them
i spoke to them about all different
aspects of ielts writing how to maximize
your score
and one of the guys actually said that
the major problem that all
anyone who struggles the major problem
is that they don't answer the question
properly or fully so there you go i
think we've made our point
made the point okay to achieve your
writing goals what are you gonna do
each day and each week until your test
write them down on your 2021 goal
sheet it might be something like rewrite
a task 1
and a task 2 each day covering all the
different task types or
attending a live class or watching a
live class on e2
writing a paragraph perhaps if you're
just getting started and maybe each week
you might want to do
a practice test make your own goals
something that you can achieve yeah i
think these are these are great goals
um with that weekly one of writing a
full practice test one of the things
that you want to do is build up
endurance because on test day
you are sitting there for like three
hours yeah right
yeah yeah and if you're doing the
writing section last
or first it doesn't matter you need to
build up your endurance so
and especially if you're taking the
paper-based test with a pencil
and you're writing these essays like you
actually need to build up muscular
strength too
yeah it's painful it gets painful yeah
reading okay so in order to improve
your reading score you should do
practice tests that's a good idea
but there's much more to it than that
you can of course find practice tests on
the internet there's heaps floating
around
just make sure they're good quality ones
the cambridge ones of course
are very good and the e2 language ones
are also
very good just be careful of poor
quality tests because they won't be
helpful
but that's not a tip is it no
okay so imagine you're doing these
practice tests and
you're aiming for say 6.5 and you get
5.5 on the first one
then you do another one you get 5.5 and
again you get 5.5
how do you actually increase your
reading score
because if you're just doing practice
test after practice test
it's not actually going to help you
you're still stuck at that particular
level so
let's take a look at a couple of tips to
help your reading score
reading tip one grow your vocabulary
there is a really strong correlation
between
how many words you know and your reading
score basically or how much
you can comprehend when you're reading
so it's a very
simple equation that the more vocab you
know
the higher your band score is going to
be and it may seem
[Music]
daunting or overwhelming to think okay
i'm 5.5 i need to go up to 6.5 how many
words do i need to know
luckily we covered all of this in
another video which you can find
linked below and in that video i talked
about
what vocab you need to learn why you
need to learn it
and also importantly how to learn it
nice
and it's a it's a kind of fun thing to
learn vocabulary and there's simple ways
to do it like little flash cards there
are apps that you can use as well
and basically being around english as
much as possible
that's going to improve your vocab but
building vocab
should be a really strong part of your
ielts preparation
yeah okay what about also time
management because that's an issue
in the reading section so knowing lots
of words is
one thing but there's a special word
called what is an
automaticity right like automatic you
need to know these words
immediately like if you're looking at a
word but you kind of know it but you're
spending a few seconds thinking well
what's that word
if you're doing that a hundred times in
the reading test that's gonna chew up a
lot of time
yeah yeah yeah so learning a word is not
just
printing a list of words unfortunately
it's
meeting those words a lot it's
internalizing the words producing the
words so that
when you're reading you recognize that
word you don't need to stumble around
thinking about it yeah
reading tip two try the e2
paragraph by paragraph method so
what is this e2 paragraph by paragraph
method
it's wonderful is it and we've got
videos on it which you can watch on our
youtube channel we also cover it in our
live classes on e2 language and in our
methods
videos yeah which we just recently
updated they're
in the course on e2language.com but
essentially the paragraph by paragraph
method
is one particular approach particularly
useful
for those longer academic passages
i won't go into it here because you'll
see the videos linked below if you're
interested but
i guess the broader point here is to try
a couple of methods if you are
struggling and if you are stuck on 5.5
5.5
and you're building your vocab but not
making progress yeah maybe you need to
adjust your strategy because
one way doesn't suit everybody
there's a good expression for that i
can't think what it is
one way there's three different ways to
skin a cat
yeah something like that i don't like
that one though that's awful
okay but you know a lot of books a lot
of teachers will say you must skim the
passage
first and personally yeah i actually
don't find that
all that helpful so i use a different
method most of the time
because i've tried a few and you should
do the same
don't use paragraph by paragraph because
i said to
try it if it works for you yeah awesome
use it
if not try another method yeah look i
think i think these methods
are really helpful they're like
step-by-step approaches to a particular
question type
first of all you need to understand the
question types i think there are 11
different reading questions in ielts 11
or 12.
anyway again we've got these methods
lessons on e2language.com
which take you through every single
different question type and we give you
these
methods so next time you're looking at
that match headings or true false not
given or whatever it is you're like oh
yes
i know how to approach this where to
look first
what to do next etc and that helps
okay so let's set some goals for your
reading so you can improve your scores
what you want to do on a daily basis is
read some sort of
article that might be sciencedaily.com
or bbc or whatever newspaper you
particularly like
while you're reading you might want to
summarize the paragraph okay so read the
paragraph
a good little tool is to then summarize
it into a single sentence okay
get the main idea of the paragraph in a
single sentence
the other thing you need to do in order
to build your vocabulary is to create
flash cards so find five new words a day
now you might want to do these by theme
so by technology or
health or education etc that's really
helpful
and it's also helpful if you know if
it's a noun or a verb or an adjective so
categorize it by theme
and by part of speech or type of word
on a weekly basis you might want to do a
full practice test
but what's better is if you come along
to our live
classes that happen every day twice a
day by an expert
taught by our expert teachers and we
actually take you through the methods we
actually do vocab building with you and
it's just sort of
it just it's good motivation actually
because there's other students in the
class there's a teacher it's kind of
fun it's really good yeah that's it so
we've covered so far writing
and reading we've given you some
suggestions for goals but share with us
your own ideas in the comments section
below nice
listening jay you've done the test
five times i have what's your overall
impression or you're
feeling your experience with ielts
listening um okay so
i think it's fine as in the audios are
quite slow they're actually quite
artificial they speak very clearly
the accents are quite neutral you'll get
different accents but
they're very clear like you know it's
not like real spoken english where
people are
right however a few things you need to
know
is one you want to really be familiar
with the different question types
secondly you want to employ the tips
that we're about to tell you now
okay listening tip one
read ahead this is a really basic
test skill a really basic listening
skill as well
but it's also something that when i was
teaching in the classroom i always saw
my students sitting staring at question
one
and we do that in the live class too i
say read to question 10 i can i know
everybody is just looking at question
one
that has massive consequences for your
score i can promise you
the difference between just looking at
question one
or reading before you hear the audio is
is
enormous so i know you've heard it all
the time
teacher always says read ahead read
ahead the audio and the test says look
at questions one to seven look at
questions one to six
make sure that you do it and really not
just
look at the questions read the questions
i'll show you a quick
example so you might have something like
this there's only four questions here
but a huge
amount of text and you can see if you
were just looking at question 21 and
reading through
a through b through c the time will
probably
be up and you haven't read question 24.
so an example of read ahead
that philosophy for multiple choice is
just ignore
abc but you've got to read those
questions 21
22 23 24 the stem of the question
yeah and this same tip also applies when
it comes to
um the breaks in the listening test
remember there's lots of
spare time let's call it in the
listening there's 30 seconds here
a minute there yeah and the instructions
sometimes tell you
um now check questions like questions
that you did previously yeah
you should not do it no i agree you
should go forward whatever you've done
if you've missed something yeah just say
goodbye and
move forward so always keep your eyes
and your mind
ahead yeah look it's i should say it's
kind look i think the listening test
goes for about 13 minutes or something
like it's
about 30. oh it's a 30. yeah well time
flies there you go
time does fly i'm gonna say it's quite
stressful because
what you're doing is yes it's listening
but you're doing a lot of reading as
well
okay and so especially with like a
multiple choice question
you've got to quickly read through it
then you're listening and
while you're listening you're also
reading again in just like
parallel processing between reading and
listening reading and listening reading
and listening
or if you're looking at the map you're
looking at the map and listening looking
at the map listening you know et cetera
so
it's it's full-on actually yeah and you
don't want when you hear it
you should have already already read it
before that will make life
much easier read ahead
listening tip two listen to more
english okay so what you want to do of
course
in addition to learning about the
questions and doing lots of practice in
our
live classes for example is you want to
listen to more
english especially if you live in a
country where english is not the main
language and where you don't hear it
that often so
alex how do you do that well it's so
easy
now because english is everywhere thanks
to the internet
and thanks to things called podcasts
which are basically free
radio shows we made a video all about
this you can find it in the link
below and that video explains how to use
podcasts to
increase your vocabulary on the one hand
also to increase your
um breadth your ideas the number of
ideas that you know
and also to get familiar with spoken
english like real spoken english which
is very different to
written english of course and as jay
said the ielts listening test
as you'll see in that video comparing
ielts listening
to real english you'll notice ielts
listening is much much slower
so the more that you can listen to real
english real people
speaking really quickly ielts listening
will become
a piece of cake a breeze a breeze yep
let's write some goals to increase our
score in ielts listening here are some
ideas
every day you could watch a tv show
any tv show it doesn't matter you could
listen to a podcast
or you could do five practice activities
on e2 language
every week challenge yourself to do
something like
listen to a podcast and read the
transcript
if you're enjoying watching this video
and you think we are wonderful teachers
which is true
you should click the subscribe button
because we release videos
nearly every week every week and they're
very helpful but if you really want to
practice your ielts properly
check out e2language.com because only
some of the stuff we do is on youtube
all of it is on e2language.com and it's
way more fun
there okay so let's talk about speaking
now alex you were
an ielts speaking examiner for how long
10 years
10 years how many candidates do you
think you saw in 10 years
a lot thousands maybe
maybe thousands yeah a lot wow so you
must have seen
a lot of good performances and a lot of
bad performances right yes have you got
a few tips
i've got two great tips for you
excellent
speaking tip one speak english
a lot this is another obvious one
right i'm doing a speaking test i should
practice speaking
but again it's something that may seem
more difficult than it is perhaps you
live alone perhaps you don't live in an
english-speaking country you may not
have friends who speak english
you can find them online there are a lot
of people who want to practice on our
like facebook group people are often
looking for study buddies
which is great the key is though set it
up
and commit to it so say all right twice
a week this time you know make a little
zoom session with the person
alternatively come and see one of the
teachers at e2 language
join a small group class something like
that
or you can just talk to yourself you can
talk to your
plant you can talk to the mirror you can
record yourself just be nice to yourself
yeah yeah say nice things to yourself
and you can
practice speaking about ielts questions
we have um
a video which is below with 20 speaking
topics lots of questions under 20
speaking topics use them
or at the end of the day you can just
sit on the couch
talk to your plant and tell the plant
what did you do today how did you feel
what did you see
what did you read reading aloud is also
good i think
yeah yeah i think yeah that's something
it doesn't it doesn't make it
spontaneous which is a big part of it
but it can help
with just that flow especially if you're
reading aloud like
listening to say a ted talk with a
transcript and say there's a nice native
english
speaker's voice that you like so you're
sort of mimicking them and making sure
that your pronunciation is matching
their pronunciation
you really have to pay close attention
with your ears to make sure that you
what you're saying or how you're saying
it
matches what they're saying yeah that
can be helpful and the reason why this
is so important is because when you sit
down
in the speaking exam the examiner knows
immediately
if you haven't been speaking english
much when they when you say your name
i can tell that you haven't spoken
english today for example so
you want that language to just be
available
and to come out really easily rather
than every word that you hear
and say being a struggle because that is
going to affect your score
you really want that flow so even though
it might be uncomfortable at least
for you know a week before your test try
to shut off from your
own language and just speak english
yeah you won't lose your own language
speaking tip
two practice with the criteria
okay so if you're an ielts examiner or
ex-ielts examiner like alex you aren't
just giving a
score willy-nilly what you're doing is
actually
looking at a sort of checklist or what's
called the criteria
and then you're listening to the
candidate and you're assessing the
candidate according to
that checklist or that criteria and it's
quite complicated let's take a look
okay so this is what it kind of looks
like and there's
these things called band descriptors
like fluency and coherence lexical
resource of vocabulary
grammatical range and accuracy as well
as
pronunciation and you can see that
there are also numbers nine eight seven
six five four three two one zero
let's simplify this a little bit if we
look at this one here fluency and
coherence means you speak without
effort you use a range of connective
words discourse markers
you develop your sentences or your
topics
fully lexical resource is vocabulary
that means you use the vocab
precisely and flexibly you use some
less common or idiomatic vocab and you
use
paraphrasing grammatical range and
accuracy means you use a range of
structures lots of different structures
and you produce
them error-free those sentences are
error-free
lastly you have pronunciation which
includes intonation
emphasis and stress connected speech and
clear pronunciation oh
my god speaking is very complicated
these are all the different parts or
elements of a good performance so alex
what do i do as a candidate
should i just be should i get a tattoo
maybe
a tattoo of the criteria on my arm
that's a good idea yes that is the best
idea
that's my tip for the day there is a lot
to think about definitely and
and the examiner is thinking about all
of those things as you speak
on test day you shouldn't really be
thinking about that stuff at all if
you've prepared well
on test day you are just there with your
confidence
and your flow of english but our tip was
to
practice with the criteria before your
test
from now give some attention and some
time to each individual criterion
so let's say today we're going to do a
speaking test with you or with my plant
i've got my test on my phone or print it
out
and i'm going to do it by only i'm only
going to focus on one
aspect of the criteria so today i might
be just thinking about
grammar okay so i'm just thinking what
are some of the grammatical structures i
can use maybe make
a list or you can find one online like
i'm going to use
five different tenses i'm going to use a
conditional i'm going to make some
complex sentences
i'm going to use gerunds modal verbs
modals so have a list of things
and then as i do my speaking tests i'm
sort of checking off that i've used them
all or recording myself
of course on test day you're not going
to do that because
if you're concentrating on grammar yeah
fluency is going to drop
maybe vocab is going to drop
pronunciation you're hesitating a lot
that's all right this is just
preparation yeah but the idea is that oh
cool i used a conditional there i'm more
confident using a conditional or
i listen back and i made errors with my
tenses so i got to fix that up so that
next time it happens more automatically
so practice with the criteria before
your test yeah
and focus on those things that you need
to work on this is where
feedback from an expert will really help
you as well
yeah agree agree your feedback's
critical one of the things we offer on
e2 language
are tutorials one-on-one 45-minute
tutorials with experts we'll actually do
speaking practice tests with them we
also have the mock test which includes
a one-on-one speaking mock test done on
the computer via zoom
um that one's great because you get like
really detailed
feedback on the checklist and even more
detail than that
from the teacher yeah to show you what
you're doing well and where you need to
improve a bit more too
yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah so the the
criteria
is critical that is really what you're
scored on it's not just plucked from
thin air by the examiner this is what
it's all about
and it's also the same for writing by
the way writing also has a set of
criteria
and you should really be understanding
how that all works now
you can go about doing this by yourself
of course if you're a linguist or a
philosopher that might be fine
but if you're an average joe who just
wants to pass the test let us do the
heavy lifting in our live classes i
think that's the best idea
let's set some goals for speaking okay
so here
are some possible speaking goals for you
on a daily basis
you might just want to spend like 10
minutes a day where you speak for
four minutes on a topic then three
minutes on the same topic then
two minutes on the same topic this will
help you to become much more coherent
and precise
of course one of the ielts speaking
tasks is a
two-minute monologue so that's good
practice
you should do a speaking test with a
grammar
checklist so as alex mentioned before
you might want to have a list of
different
a range of grammar that you can include
while you're speaking
okay so you want to also set yourself a
weekly goal that you
speak english for 30 minutes every day
and there you have it that is our top
tips to get you started
on your ielts preparation for 2021. you
can find all the links that we talked
about
below make sure that you subscribe so
you are the first to know
when we release a new video or when
we're teaching
live for more help more personal help
join us on e2language.com
finally make sure you share your goals
with us in the comments below
and let's conquer ielts yeah let's do it
happy new year
you